add blog about health (#33)
santoshyadavdev/portfolio: src/content/blog/2024-09-29-fighting-the-invisible-Battle-my-story-of-health-struggles.mdx

author: Santosh Yadav
---

import doubt from '../../images/health/doubt.jpg';
import myself from '../../images/health/healthy.jpg';
import wellness from '../../images/health/wellness.png';
import speaking from '../../images/undraw/public-speaking.jpeg';
import excuse from '../../images/health/excuse.jpg';

import BlogImage from '../../components/blogimage.astro';

Hey friends, if you are here, I wish you a healthy life and hope you are doing great physically and mentally. And please take care of your health. I learned it the hard way. Though I always preach about work-life balance, I ended up screwing up my health. 

I will share my journey, how I fought an invisible battle, and where I am currently.

# What happened 

In April 2024, my wife and I went for a full-body checkup, as we had hardly done it since we moved to Germany. We got our reports after a week, and my doctor gave me the bad news, I had symptoms of diabetes, and my blood sugar was 270 in the report. She was surprised at how I could do my day-to-day work as I should have mainly been sleeping; she was not wrong; that was what I was doing, and my doctor mentioned she could write me a note to take some days off.

> ## Struggle with health

Reviewer: Maybe "Impact on Mental Health" is better?

Author: good suggestion

### I started to question myself: how did I end up here? 

It was all stress when Peter Parker stopped believing in himself in Spider-Man. I am not saying I am a superhero, but it was the same: everything was due to stress.

What happened 3 years ago, in Jan 2022, was I moved to Germany, and I was away from my family for 10 months, which caused me mental stress. With no support in a new country, it started impacting my health.

I have been under stress before; I struggled financially for almost my entire life and went through a phase where me and my wife were fighting every day to save our daughter and praying to god that she would come back home soon. 

But I always had my wife, daughter, and some amazing friends by my side, and we survived that phase. But not having my family and friends after moving to a new country was painful.

> What happened 3 years ago as I moved to Germany, and I was away from my family for 10 months, which caused me mental stress. With no support in a new country, it started impacting my health.

### Impact on work

> After moving to Germany, I started underperforming at my first job, and I saw no future at the organization. I was lucky to join Celonis in Aug 2022, where my co-workers and employer gave me the support I wanted. 

Reviewer: The article jumps between different time periods. It may help maintain a chronological order to avoid confusion, especially when reflecting on the time before and after moving to Germany and when discussing your diagnosis.

Author: Adjusted this a bit

### Making my health worse

One thing I love more than anything is getting myself involved in the community; after joining Celonis, I started speaking at conferences worldwide and focusing less on my health. From October 2022 to October 2024, I was in more than 20 countries, sharing my knowledge on Angular, Nx, GitHub, and Open Source. 

And I could feel physically and mentally I was finding it hard; I was sleeping for more than 12 hours a day, still trying to find time to do public speaking.

I spoke at conferences every month from October 2022 to November 2023, requiring significant effort to prepare content, practice my talk, and travel. This constant cycle was physically and mentally exhausting.

Forcing myself was a bad call; always listen to your body. 

<BlogImage src={wellness} alt="If you do not make time for your wellness, you will be forced to make time for your illness" />

> 'If you do not make time for your wellness, you will be forced to make time for your illness' #readthatagain

The above lines are so true. My body started forcing me to take that time, but I didn't like it.

> Once I was diagnosed, I realized that going through mental and physical stress was the reason for diabetes.

Reviewer: The article is an inspiring account of personal growth, but it would benefit from more reflection on key moments. For example, when you mention being diagnosed with diabetes, more detail about how that news affected you in the moment and what the hardest part of the journey was would resonate with the reader on a deeper emotional level. For example you mentioned somewhere that you gave up sugar. How did you do that? It's very difficult to give up sugar.

## How am I doing now 

I started running, eating healthy, and stopped eating sugar after getting diagnosed. Now, I feel I am physically and mentally in the best shape of my life.

When I wanted to start running, I wondered how I was supposed to take one hour off my schedule. But I realized you will always have excuses, and Jan from The office said it best 

<BlogImage src={excuse} alt="there's always a million reasons not to do something." />

> > So want to do something which is important, do it "there's always a million reasons not to do something."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> So want to do something which is important, do it "there are always a million reasons not to do something."
```

I also got an appointment with my diabetes doctor in April 2024. My reports were scary; my doctor thought it was type 1 diabetes and gave me insulin to use for a few days, but in 2 weeks, we got the report, and it was Type 2.

My doctor's first question was, "Are you physically active? Do you go for a walk or run?" 

My answer was "No," and I felt terrible; I bought this day on myself, prioritizing everything apart from my health. I was not eating healthy, either.

My doctor advised me on what I could eat and what I should avoid eating and asked me to start becoming more physically active.

I stopped eating sugar on 15th April 2024 and started walking daily. I also wanted to monitor my health, so I invested in a good fitness watch and bought a Garmin Venu 3. I recommend investing in a good fitness watch.

Running was never in my mind. Initially, I started walking on my treadmill and going for walks outside, but I decided to give it a try and start running over the next few months.

It became a hobby, and I started running three times a week. It became a schedule; no matter what I was doing or where I was, I just left everything and went for a run.

> 

Reviewer: This is great. Nice improvement on adding the details. Did you struggle with giving up sugar?

Author: Not really, I just had to prepare myself mentally as I mentioned
